
	Unsettling Parallels Between Security and the Environment

		       Ross Anderson

The insecurity of the Internet has been compared to environmental
pollution: running a vulnerable machine creates negative externalities
as it becomes a potential vector for worms, distributed denial of
service attacks and so on. Users do not therefore bear the full costs
of their actions; this is now being used as an excuse for more
government regulation, particularly by the European Union [1].

So what can the information security community learn from the world of
environmental economics?

The standard view of environmental economics can be found in textbooks
such as Kolstad [2], which presents it as an application of economics
that took off in the 1970s. Its main problem has been in measuring
people's willingness to pay to reduce pollution; its main contribution
to economic theory is in non-market valuation; and its main visible
contribution to the way we live is in mechanisms such as the tradable
pollution permits used by cities in Germany. It is contrasted with
`ecological economics', a more fundamentalist school whose
practitioners are often ecologists who learned some economics rather
than economists who studied the natural world. In this school, the
philosophical emphasis is often on very long timescales, and the main
practical contribution is the concept of energy audits. There is a
distinct right-left split between the disciplines, with the former
being typically interested in maximising the profit from natural
resources and considering the latter to be naive.

This already touches a number of chords for the security engineer.
Our profession maintained a remarkable unanimity in the 1990s in the
face of government attempts to introduce key escrow and regulate
information security mechanisms generally, but in the last year or two
has been separating into one group of people people happy to work on
digital rights management systems, and another group of people who
work on privacy, often with a commitment to free or open source
software. The two groups are not yet at war, but are starting to drift
visibly apart.

With hindsight this is not too surprising. Given that information
security, like physical security, is about power, the remarkable thing
may be the length of time for which it was generally believed that
cryptography would be on balance a liberating force.  Sooner or later,
as predicted by Lessig [3], the men of power were bound to grasp the
new levers of power, or to be joined at the top table by the new
people who operated them. So perhaps the last twenty years' history of
environmental economics holds useful omens for the near future of
information security.

So what is the hot topic in environmental economics right now?

Without doubt, the most vigorous debate concerns Lomborg's book, `The
Sceptical Environmentalist'. This argues that many of the frightening
claims made about the environment in recent years have been
exaggerated, and often wildly so: that deforestation and species
extinction are not really a problem, that global warming is over-hyped
and that environmental dollars should be spent instead on simple
measures such as providing clean drinking water to the third world.
The reasons for systematic exaggeration are just as interesting. Most
of the players in the environmental business have an incentive to talk
up the problem: this holds whether you are a professor of botany
seeking funding for an expedition to Brazil, an engineer trying to
sell flue-gas desulphurization equipment to a power station, or a
bureaucrat trying to build up influence of the environmental agency
you work for. The press can be replied on to report the most
spectacular claims, and in the absence of solid data, all sorts of
wild hypothesis are repeated often enough to mutate from urban legends
into accepted `facts'.

Does this not sound rather familiar to the security engineer?

Environmental scaremongers tell us on Monday that the oil will run out
in 25 years, bringing civilisation to a stop, and on Tuesday that
global warming will drown East Anglia by the end of this century. No
connection seems to be made; no-one stops to object that at most one
of these predictions is likely to be true.  Security scaremongers tell
us on Wednesday that email is so easy to tap on the Internet that we
should beware for our credit card numbers, but when on Thursday the
FBI say that tapping email on the Internet is so hard that they need a
special `Carnivore' box at each ISP, the connection is again not made.
If tapping email is really so much harder than opening the physical
mail, are the dozens of encryption companies selling anything of value
- or should the stock market regulators be taking a closer interest in
their promoters?

The security engineering community has, like the environmental science
community, built-in incentives to overstate the problem. The typical
infosec professional is a firewall vendor struggling to meet quarterly
sales targets to prop up a sagging stock price, or a professor trying
to mine the `cyberterrorism' industry for grants, or a policeman
pitching for the budget to build up a computer crime agency. The
players whose interest lies in understating the problem - whether ISPs
who want customers to relax and spend hours online, or large software
firms who want to downplay the latest vulnerability - do not generally
feel able to make their case forcefully, any more than the oil or
timber companies.  Banks rushed to warn customers about the risks of
using credit cards on the net in the mid-1990s; but now that they can
see the transaction charges greatly exceed the fraud, they are nervous
about changing their tune too openly, and prefer to spend their
energies quietly lobbying to have the risks of electronic fraud passed
on to others.

Over the last fifteen years, I have seen several information security
fashions come and go. Recently the emphasis has been on network
security, in the broad sense - which has tended to mean selling
firewalls and encryption. Given that these technologies tackle only a
minority of the typical firm's security problems, and that they were
grossly oversold [4], the ebbing of that particular tide is to be
welcomed. However, in the short breathing space before the next big
thing arrives, it is time to ask the hard question: does the average
firm spend too little on security, as the vendors say, or too much?

My intuition is that many firms get it about right, or if anything
spend slightly too much. Recently, some quantitative support for this
view has been published by Soo Hoo, suggesting a return on security
investment of around 20% - economically worthwhile, but below 30% ROI
typically demanded for IT investments at the time of the study [5].
His study also suggests that simple, cheap measures such as turning on
screen locking features are much more worthwhile than the large
projects (such as PKI to support network encryption and centralised
access control) that many security vendors prefer to sell. The
`executive summary' is `you could spend a bit less on security if you
spent it smarter'. Refining this message must surely be of some value
to industry.

I also hope that by developing the economics of information security
as a rigorous discipline, which provides researchers and vendors with
continuous practical feedback, we can avoid the pitfall into which our
environmental research colleagues have fallen. There, Lomborg's
(overdue) deflation of the wild claims made by the more colourful NGOs
and eco-scaremongers has also caused much anger and embarrassment to
respectable scientists. 

Rational and constructive criticism at regular intervals are what's
needed. As the park ranger says, it's OK to have a fire every five
years; but if you put them out aggressively and let the undergrowth
accumulate for twenty-five years, then you have a serious problem.



[1] European Commission, Network and Information Security: Proposal 
    for a European Policy Approach, 2001,
    <http://europa.eu.int/information_society/eeurope/news_library/pdf_files/netsec_en.pdf>

[2] Charles D. Kolstad, Environmental Economics, Oxford University Press, 2000 

[3] Lawrence Lessig, Code and other laws of cyberspace, Basic Books 1999

[4] Ross Anderson, Security Engineering, Wiley 2001

[5] Kevin Soo Hoo, How Much is Enough? A Risk Management Approach to
    Computer Security, http://cisac.stanford.edu/docs/soohoo.pdf




