Marketplace Incentives to Prevent Piracy”: An Incentive for Security?

L. Jean Camp
79 JFK St. • KSG • Harvard
Cambridge, MA 02138
jean_camp@harvard.edu
617/496-6331
Harvard University

What is security? Proposed legislation and past arguments, embodying the 
perspective of the owners of high-value content, call for a 
reconsideration of security for the purpose of copy control.   Such 
arguments and legislation would require that content ownership be 
enforced as content passes through the network and is stored on the 
desktop.  Proposals to install mandated copy controls for the protection 
of distributed copies of high-value content have been called a step 
towards a secure network by some and a serious threat to security by 
others.

In this workshop I propose that the creation of a market for the trade 
in security vulnerabilities could complement content control or 
undermine remote control of distributed content.  I will further argue 
that proposals to implement hardware controls on content where one 
person has ownership rights  through privacy rights or intellectual 
property rights  mirrors the debate between the end-to-end argument and 
the brave new network.

Could the previously proposed mechanisms for increasing security 
increase or decrease the control of content owners? There is an argument 
for either perspective.  Thus here I recall the original proposal for a 
market in vulnerabilities,  and offer arguments that market incentives 
for security can increase or decrease the control of content owners.

In previous work Catherine Wolfram and I proposed a market for 
vulnerabilities. The basic concept is that a market requires a 
commodity, and security is too difficult to define.  In that work a 
vulnerability was defined as:

• A technical flaw allowing unauthorized access or use
• Where the relationship between the flaw and access allowed is clear
• Which has been documented to have been used to subvert a machine

Here I reconsider that work in the face of competing claims for rights 
to actions in consumer-based electronics. In particular, in the 
workshop, I seek to answer questions about how vulnerability-based 
market incentives can function in the face of mounting concerns over 
intellectual property. (The other primary open issue identified as 
unsolved in the original paper, pricing open source, is not addressed 
here.)

The powerful community of owners of high value content seeks a new 
definition of secure, which will address the lack of marketplace 
incentive to prevent piracy. Were the vulnerabilities market adopted, 
would there be such a marketplace incentive? What elements of ownership 
might be protected and what elements might be at risk?

First, I argue that the creation of market incentives for secure 
machines can enhance the ability to exert control over content. Without 
secure machines, when not even the owner of a machine can exert control, 
there is little or no hope that distant owners can exert consistent 
control.  The ability to lock a part of a machine means that content 
controls can be created.

This argument complements the perspective that security is in opposition 
to the end-to-end argument. If allowing users to manipulate their own 
machines is to require naïve users to secure their own machines, then 
enhancing security inevitability requires removing the power from 
users.  Thus enhancing security might enable a set of secure APIs that 
cannot necessarily be called by the users. In this case, securing the 
content from the malicious or careless user would clearly be enhanced by 
increased security.

Alternatively I can argue that the creation of a market incentive for 
secure machines will decrease the power of content owners. Security 
gives consumers the power to limit the information in his or her own 
machine, as well as the information entering and leaving the machine.   
The proposals for control of owned content inherently require that the 
owner be able to subvert the consumer’s machine to detect, prevent, or 
reverse illegal or unauthorized consumer copying.

The ability to control information entering and leaving a machine 
implies that the user can prevent the reporting and auditing processes 
preferred by owners of high-value content. The ability to prevent the 
co-called “phone home” auditing processes undermines the strategy of 
user surveillance to prevent user copying. Thus creation of market 
incentives for security would undermine the goals of owners of 
high-value content.

The ability to alter internal controls without fear of a resulting 
subversion can encourage user innovation and risk-taking, for example 
encouraging active participation in peer-to-peer systems. Such systems 
are most widely the subject of debate because of the ease of exchanging 
files, and such files might include high value content.

Thus a market for security based on the trade of commodity 
vulnerabilities can create incentives which complement or undermine the 
goals of owners of high-value content. Therefore my goal in 
participation with the workshop is to discuss how market-based 
incentives to secure machines might interact with the drive to prevent 
illegal copying of high-value content. The argument that market 
incentives are needed has been clearly argued in previous work, and 
implicitly by the creation of this workshop. However, the implementation 
of such a market may create incentive s for end-to-end user-empowering 
mechanisms, or create incentives to constrain user behavior.

This work was funded in part by NSF CAREER Grant # 9985433 and  a grant 
from the East Asian Institute at Harvard.

