      Privacy, Economics, and Price Discrimination on the Internet

                         Andrew Odlyzko

                   Digital Technology Center
                    University of Minnesota

                       odlyzko@umn.edu
               http://www.dtc.umn.edu/~odlyzko


Abstract
Why is privacy eroding?  There is wide concern about political and social
impact of the increasingly detailed data collection and processing about
our activities.  However, most of the developments that reduce privacy
are coming from corporations, which care about money, not politics.
The thesis of this talk is that what really motivates these enterprises
(even though they often do not realize it clearly themselves) is the
strong incentive to price discriminate.  This incentive is the result
of the economics of the Internet, with high fixed and extremely low
marginal costs.  It is the same incentive that has led to the airline
yield management system, with a complex and constantly changing array
of prices.  It is also the same incentive that led railroads to invent a
variety of price and quality differentiation schemes in the 19th century.
Privacy intrusions serve to provide the information that allows sellers
to determine buyers' willingness to pay as well as to prevent arbitrage.
Modern technology is thus both increasing the incentives to price
discriminate and providing better means to do so.

Contrary to a frequently made assumption, rice discrimination does not
mean there is a monopoly or "market power."  There are many examples,
from telephones a century ago to airlines in recent years, which show that
often, increased competition leads to increases in price discrimination.

Economically, price discrimination is usually regarded as desirable,
since it increases the efficiency of the economy.  That is why it is
often promoted by governments, either through explicit mandates or
through indirect means.  On the other hand, price discrimination often
arouses strong opposition from the public.  There are various findings
in behavioral economics that help explain this opposition in principle.
However, as is often the case, there is a question of what laboratory
experiments might mean in practice.  Thus it may be very illuminating
to observe what happened when price discrimination was practiced in
a very intrusive and extensive fashion.  The example of 19th century
railroads in the US and UK shows that their discriminatory practices
were the main irritant that motivated the protest movements that led to
government regulation.  This suggests that overt differential pricing
will continue to be resisted.

There is no easy resolution to the conflict between sellers' incentives
to price discriminate and buyers' resistance to such measures.
The continuing tension between these two factors will have important
consequences for the nature of the economy.  It will also determine
which technologies will be adopted widely.  Governments will likely
play a role in controlling pricing, although their roles will probably
be ambiguous.  Sellers are likely to rely on bundling, since that
allows them to extract more consumer surplus and also to conceal the
extent of price discrimination.  Micropayments and auctions are likely
to play a smaller role than is often expected.  In general, because
of the strong conflicting influences, privacy is likely to prove an
intractable problem that will be prominent on the the public agenda for
the foreseeable future.

