Position paper for the workshop on economics and information security

Thomas-Xavier MARTIN

The currency that is not spent enough to improve security is not
money, but time. And you can only buy someone's time with your money
(i.e. outsource your security needs) if the market is mature enough.

Reasons why the security market is immature and will stay that way for
a long time :

1) Not enough decently taught graduates (as in all fields related to
computers). This is basically the most important problem ; not enough
people means not enough research, not enough studies allowing us to
agree on "best practices", not enough journalists with a scientific
background to popularize the issues of the field, etc.

2) Zero public visibility (not as "the subject is not often discussed
in the media", which is false, but as "not enough citizen stung by
problems to make digital security a public issue"). This means
essentially that lawmakers do not care about the subject and thus will
not make efficient and creative new laws to help solve the problem.

Some people think that lawmakers are incompetent and can only do harm
when crafting laws on technical issues. I believe this is false. In
France e.g., whenever computers became a public issue (1977 on data
protection and 1987 on computer crime), the National Assembly passed
sweeping and broad laws that have withstood the test of time and
proved themselves adequate and well written.

What is interesting is that the exact same problem which raised such a
large public reaction in 1977 that it resulted in the (at the time)
most advanced law on the protection of private data did not even make
a blimp on public conscience in 1999. Public sensitivity on difficult
technical subjects is immensely variable ; it relies on very
subjectively perceived danger, not on anything even remotely
reasonable. We need more studies on the perception of trust and danger
in complex settings.

3) Expertise and efficiency cannot be reliably assessed, neither by
the public nor by the management of client companies. This is
maddeningly infuriating for security experts trying their hand at
private consulting : they are unable to extract anything but
ridiculously low fees from clients that are too clueless.

Clients and public opinion cannot assess quality (or shoddiness) of
any security work. They will not support paying for anything but the
lowest price, even if they are aware of the need, since they cannot be
sure that additional money would be well spent. One consequence is
that experts then retreat back to other fields or pursuits, leaving
only half-trained morons or liars on the market.

We need independant certification for the experts and for the
graduates (and the teachers, and the subjects they teach... Anyone
want to start a professional organization ?)

4) Security problems are intrisically complicated and span the entire 
organization. What it means is that nobody can really be in charge of 
security except the CEO...

Taking as an example my former job in the Gendarmerie : at the
beginning, since the job of security officer had just been created,
its purpose was essentially to develop the security culture inside the
corps. After three years, we actually had security policies and tools
and an embryo of culture, and there was an increasing pressure to make
the security officer officially responsible for all security
breaches. I fought this idea as much as I could and eventually
resigned from the office (for this reason and many others.)

My successors were not as lucky as I had been. General staff decided
that the security officer performance would from this moment onwards
be assessed on the number and importance of security breachs. Lacking
the rank to enforce their views and the means to reasonably limit the
risk to their carreer, all my successors up to now have quit the
office less than 9 month after having come in.

But this problem also cuts the other way : in some other structures,
the span of the security problems are used by the person in charge to
spread and shift the blame for foul-ups.

In both cases, the net result is that nobody is really in charge of
security, with predictable real world results. 

 -------------------

Things that may be current problems but that are irrelevant to the
possible maturation of the market :

1) Lack of liability (I am sorry to disagree with Pr Varian's
position, as stated in his recent NYT article !) : my experience as an
arbitrator/technical expert in commercial or judicial disputes between
companies shows that if assessing damage is next to impossible,
distributing responsabilities among actors IS impossible.

Pushing the matter to the courts only results in long and drawn-out
legal battles of bewildering complexity, where final decisions are
taken with such consideration for irrelevant details that there is
absolutely no significant build-up of case law.

Besides, the liability question cannot be artificially separated from
the larger question of software licenses. As long as word processors
are sold without any guarantee, express or implied, regarding the
software's ability to process words, liability for security issues is
a distant dream. In the current world of powerful software houses
being attacked by GPL-type open source licensed free (as in beer)
software, successful reform of such magnitude in software licenses is
only a sweet illusion.

2) Scaremongering. I would be very interested in hearing US and UK
experiences on this subject. In France, this is definitely not a
problem. The security market is very fragmented with a lot of niche
players ; no individual company has a sufficient weight to launch an
influential marketing campaign. Some companies eventually manage to
get a national media to carry a scary story, but there is virtually no
reaction...

The general public does not seem to give a dime about digital security
issues and appears (at least to me in France) to be quite immune to
FUD tactics.

3) Insurance. The insurance issue is starting to be more and more
popular. I was unconvinced when Dr Schneier first published articles
on this idea 2 or 3 years ago, and I still am. The insurance industry
hates risk with a religious fervor. It does its best to gain the
maximum amount of information on all risks it covers.

In the way of the idea of serious insurance coverage for digital security 
risks are three common problems :
- one thief with the appropriate set of tools can raid at the same time all 
systems where the vulnerability he exploits is present
- exploit tools are easily disseminated and can be used in massive 
uncoordinated attacks
- potential damage magnitude of one unseen vulnerability is staggering, and 
not limited to the value of the company (referring to the joke on page 385 of 
Secrets and Lies)

As of today, as a security professionnal, I am completely unable to
obtain basic insurance for my professionnal activity (which has led me
to some risk management of my own...) Among my recent clients, I am
not aware of any of them being insured for these risks. I do not
believe that the insurance landscape will change any time soon.

 -------------------

I used to say to the Gendarmerie generals that 90 % of the security
budget should be spent on user education. The problem with education
is that it is a Danaides' jar... But still, users minds is the real
battlefield, the only place where we can work to improve things on the
long term. As security specialists, we should think as marketers do,
capture mindshare, promote brands/concepts, etc.

But we should also lift at least some part of the veil that hides
important data ; I have mentioned earlier that we know so little on
the building of trust and the perception of danger. Another important
idea that we, as computer specialists, unconsciously repress and
refuse to see is the intense distrust for machines and computers that
is prevalent in most people.

In a recent study, a third of the French population declared that they
did not want, under any circumstances, Internet access in their
houses, even if it was free.

-------------------------------------------------------
